README.md, before:

# sys-file-indexer

## A custom parallel file indexer and hasher

### ABOUT

```sys-file-indexer``` indices the directory specified as last
argument or the current directory by default.

```sys-file-indexer``` always outputs the result to stdout.

### MODES OF OPERATION

```sys-file-indexer``` has the following modes of operation:

1. Normal mode: outputs a special CSV file that combines the two datasets
   to generate and that does not contain unique ID.  This needs to be
   processed further by split mode to be useful.  No options are
   necessary.

   Normal mode can benefit from a previous run if data is supplied with
   the ```-delta``` option.  In this case, ```sys-file-indexer``` uses the data
   generated by a previous run whenever the modification time of a file
   has not changed.

2. Split mode: split mode takes the file generated with the output for
   normal mode as input and generates either the CSV for the sys_file
   dataset or for sys_file_metadata.  See options ```-ofile``` and ```-ometa```.

3. SQL mode: outputs readily usable SQL INSERT statements that can be
   piped directly to the database.

4. SQL transform mode: reads a normal mode CSV and outputs SQL statements.
   Can be used to have SQL output and using partitioning (in two steps.)

5. Single mode: outputs one single CSV dataset.  Useful for testing onty.

### EXAMPLE

Generate the normal mode CSV output:

```
$ sys-file-indexer >../normal.csv
```

Update a previously generated normal mode CSV:

```
$ sys-file-indexer -delta=../normal.csv >../new-normal.csv
```

Split normal mode CSV to generate two datasets:
```
$ sys-file-indexer -ofile=normal.csv >sys_file.csv
$ sys-file-indexer -ometa=normal.csv >sys_file_metadata.csv
```

Generate metadata directly into the database (cannot use -delta):
```
$ sys-file-indexer -sql | mysql ...
```

Transform a normal-mode CSV into SQL:
```
$ sys-file-indexer -osql sys_file_metadata.csv | mysql ...
```

### PARTITIONING

sys-file-indexer can be run on multiple machines if that leads to an
increase in I/O throughput.

```
host1$ sys-file-indexer -w 1 -wg 3 ... > result1.csv
host2$ sys-file-indexer -w 2 -wg 3 ... > result2.csv
host3$ sys-file-indexer -w 3 -wg 3 ... > result3.csv
host1$ cat result1.csv result2.csv result3.csv > result.csv
```

### TODO

* Can scan multiple directories

Commit message:

Update readme and docs for delta osql mode

README.md, after:

# sys-file-indexer

## A custom parallel file indexer and hasher

### ABOUT

```sys-file-indexer``` indices the directory specified as last
argument or the current directory by default.

```sys-file-indexer``` always outputs the result to stdout.

### MODES OF OPERATION

```sys-file-indexer``` has the following modes of operation:

1. Normal mode: outputs a special CSV file that combines the two datasets
   to generate and that does not contain unique ID.  This needs to be
   processed further by split mode to be useful.  No options are
   necessary.

   Normal mode can benefit from a previous run if data is supplied with
   the ```-delta``` option.  In this case, ```sys-file-indexer``` uses the data
   generated by a previous run whenever the modification time of a file
   has not changed.

2. Split mode: split mode takes the file generated with the output for
   normal mode as input and generates either the CSV for the sys_file
   dataset or for sys_file_metadata.  See options ```-ofile``` and ```-ometa```.

3. SQL mode: outputs readily usable SQL INSERT statements that can be
   piped directly to the database.

4. SQL transform mode: reads a normal mode CSV and outputs SQL statements.
   Can be used to have SQL output and using partitioning (in two steps.)

5. Single mode: outputs one single CSV dataset.  Useful for testing onty.

### EXAMPLE

Generate the normal mode CSV output:

```
$ sys-file-indexer >../normal.csv
```

Update a previously generated normal mode CSV:

```
$ sys-file-indexer -delta=../normal.csv >../new-normal.csv
```

Split normal mode CSV to generate two datasets:
```
$ sys-file-indexer -ofile=normal.csv >sys_file.csv
$ sys-file-indexer -ometa=normal.csv >sys_file_metadata.csv
```

Generate metadata directly into the database (cannot use -delta):
```
$ sys-file-indexer -sql | mysql ...
```

Transform a normal-mode CSV into SQL:
```
$ sys-file-indexer -osql sys_file_metadata.csv | mysql ...
```

Delta mode and output to SQL (use ```tee``` to update the normale file in one go):
```
$ sys-file-indexer -delta normal.csv | sys-file-indexer -osql - | mysql ...
```

### PARTITIONING

sys-file-indexer can be run on multiple machines if that leads to an
increase in I/O throughput.

```
host1$ sys-file-indexer -w 1 -wg 3 ... > result1.csv
host2$ sys-file-indexer -w 2 -wg 3 ... > result2.csv
host3$ sys-file-indexer -w 3 -wg 3 ... > result3.csv
host1$ cat result1.csv result2.csv result3.csv > result.csv
```

### TODO

* Can scan multiple directories
